# MaixCam Setup
Setup guide for the MaixCams.
## Network Setup
1. Connect the MaixCam via USB-C to a computer. An ethernet connection should show up, and use that IP to SSH (replacing the `.100` at the end of the address with `.1`). For example, if the ethernet device shows as `10.91.175.100`, the address used should be `10.91.175.1`.

    Default usernames and passwords are `root` and `root`.

    ```bash
    ssh root@address
    ```
2. Navigate to `/boot`, and create and/or edit the `wpa_supplicant.conf` file.

    ```bash
    cd /boot
    touch wpa_supplicant.conf
    vi wpa_supplicant.conf
    ```
    The file should follow this format:
    ```conf
    ctrl_interface=/var/run/wpa_supplicant

    network={
        ssid="namehere"
        psk="passwordhere"
    }

    network={
        ssid="anothernamehere"
        psk="anotherpasswordhere"
    }

    ... other networks
    ```
    Alternatively, instead of editing the file directly, you may create a file with the same name on your computer and use `scp` to transfer it to the MaixCam.
    ```bash
    scp wpa_supplicant.conf root@address:/boot
    ```
3. To make connecting easier, rename the camera's hostname to something recognisable. To do this, create a `hostname` file in the `/boot` directory. <sup>[[1]](#notes)</sup>:
    ```bash
    cd /boot
    touch hostname
    vi hostname
    ```
    Inside this file, ensure only alphanumeric characters are used:
    ```
    somecoolhostname
    ```

Once the MaixCam has been restarted, it should now automatically connect to the specified networks and should be able to be accessed via its hostname.
```bash
ssh root@somecoolhostname
```
## Autostart Setup
1. Using MaixVision, package the app (ensuring the start file is main.py in the project's root directory), and install it on the camera.
2. SSH into the camera, and navigate to `/maixapp`
```bash
cd /maixapp
```

## Notes
<sup>[1]</sup> An autogenerated hostname will be used if the device cannot find the `/boot/hostname` file. Since this is done through an initialisation script, changing the hostname through other means will not persist upon reboot. [Reference](https://github.com/sipeed/NanoKVM/issues/144#issuecomment-2552133679).